Alexcmonnet/create initial user 337 (#345)
jondavid-black/AaC: docs/docs/dev_guide/aac_validation.md

---
layout: default
parent: AaC Developer's Guide
title: AaC Language Validation
nav_order: 3
has_children: false
---

# What is Validation in the AaC Language?
Because the AaC DSL is leveraging plain-text YAML as the underpinning of the DSL, there is little to no functionality to guide users in the correctness of their YAML AaC structures. AaC has implemented a self-validating language feature so that users can reference which rules are applied to which AaC DSL components, and so that users can define validation for their own user-defined structures. To this end, AaC employs a plugin-based validator system where plugins provide Python-based validator implementations that can be referenced and applied to definitions in the AaC DSL.

> Validation rules in AaC are defined with the `validation` definition, which are required to have a corresponding implementation, called a validator plugin. (Remember that YAML is just a markup langauge.)

Author: ```suggestion
Validation rules in AaC are defined with the `validation` definition, which are required to have a corresponding implementation, called a validator plugin. This enables AaC's self-validating mechanism even though YAML is just a markup language.
```

# Validating the AaC Language
The overall validation mechanism follows this flow:
1. A definition is identified as needing to be validated
2. The definition is parsed for any nested AaC structures

>   a. For example a `schema` would be identified as having the structure `Field` as a component

Author: ```suggestion
  a. For example, fields in `schema.fields` will trigger the `Field` schema's validation rules.  
```
